Earth is the third planet from the Sun. WSecurity requirements  are Integrity,Availability, Confidentiality Authenticity Accountability The mechanisms used to meet those requirements can be quite complex, and understanding them may evolve rather subtle reasoning When developing security mechanisms, must always consider potential attacks Sometimes, security mechanisms are counterintuitive Where to use them? Involve more than a particular algorithm or protocol No agreement on security for complex and heterogeneous systems i.e. trusts on data in different countries etc.  OSI Security Architecture International Telecommunication Union – Telecommunication (ITU-T) recommends X.800 Security Architecture for Open Systems Interconnection (OSI) Defines a systematic way of defining and providing security requirements Used by IT managers and vendors in their products Other Security Architectures OWASP -  Open Web Application Security Project web application security OWASP foundation NIST, Cybersecurity Framework VIRTUAL WORKSHOP #2 | February 15, 2023 (9:00 AM – 5:30 PM EST). Join us to discuss potential significant updates to the CSF as outlined in the soon-to-be-released CSF Concept Paper.  Security attack Definition: any action that compromises the security of information owned by an organization Two types of security attacks Passive attack Active attack Passive attack i.e. eavesdropping on or monitoring of transmissions Goal: obtain information being transmitted release of message contents traffic analysis – a promiscuous sniffer Very difficult to detect – no alteration of the data But easy to prevent, why? Active attack active attack includes: replay Modification of messages Denial of service Masquerade Know Your Threat Model Threat model: A model of who your attacker is and what resources they have One of the best ways to counter an attacker is to attack their reasons Example: adversary model “The adversary is assumed to be intelligent and has limited number of resources. Before capturing the nodes, it exploits the various vulnerabilities of the networks. It knows the topology of the network, routing information. It aims to capture the sink node so as to disrupt the whole traffic. If it is not able to capture the sink node, it will capture the nearby nodes of the sink. It tries to disrupt the whole traffic of the network with minimum number of captured nodes. It is also assumed that the adversary tends to attack more on the nodes closer to the data sink than nodes that are far away”.Symmetric encryption  Sender and recipient share a common/same key Was the only type of cryptography, prior to invention of public-key in 1970’s.•Has five ingredients Plaintext:  the original message or data Encryption algorithm: performs various substitutions and transformations on the plaintextSecret key Cipher text the coded message Decryption algorithm: takes the cipher text and the same secret key and produces the original plaintext.•cipher - algorithm for transforming plaintext to cipher text  encipher (encrypt) - converting plaintext to cipher text decipher (decrypt) - recovering plaintext from cipher text cryptography - study of encryption principles/methods. cryptanalysis (codebreaking) - the study of principles/ methods of deciphering cipher text without knowing key.Two requirements for secure use of symmetric encryption: a strong encryption algorithm a secret key known only to sender / receive Y = EK(X) X = DK(Y) assume encryption algorithm is known the security of symmetric encryption depends on the secrecy of the key implies a secure channel to distribute key. 













